---
layout: post
title: "Setting up an Xbox Series X on Stanford's network"
date: 2025-12-13
categories: [Random, How-To]
---

I got an Xbox Series X (*wild cheers*)! I had to set it up on Stanford's network (*loud boos*). Since the top result for when you search "stanford xbox set up" is a [Reddit post](https://www.reddit.com/r/stanford/comments/stomvs/how_do_i_connect_xbox_series_x_to_wifi/) from almost four years ago (with no definitive answer), I thought I'd write up my experience. 

To get the Xbox on the network, you need to register it with Stanford. Go [here](https://rnt.stanford.edu/) and click on "Browserless Devices".

- Plug in the Xbox to a display and a power source.
- Set up a hotspot on your phone.
- Take out the controller, put the batteries in, and turn it on.
- Press the menu button on the controller (the button with the three lines).
- Walk through the setup process, and connect to the hotspot.
- It will probably ask you to download an update. Godspeed. Mine was 1.6GB and on my iphone hotspot took a while (started at 6:45pm, finished at 7pm).
- Follow the instructions on the screen to turn on the console using the controller.
- Sign into your Xbox account.
- Go to Settings > Network > Network Settings > Advanced Settings. Find the wireless MAC address.
- On a laptop, go to [Stanford's network registration page](https://rnt.stanford.edu/) and click on "Browserless Devices". At some point you'll be asked to enter the MAC address. You might then get a message about how long you need to wait.
- On the Xbox, change the network to Stanford, and you should be all good to go!
